Translate teacher getting started guide (#503)
dodona-edu/dodona-edu.github.io: en/guides/teachers/getting-started/index.md

description: "Tutorial: Getting Started with Dodona as a Teacher"
order: 1
---

# Getting Started with Dodona as a Teacher

All the information to get started smoothly with Dodona as a teacher.

## What is Dodona?

Dodona is an online exercise platform for learning to code.
The web application was developed at Ghent University to support practical exercises for large groups of students.
Dodona therefore primarily focuses on the automatic testing and feedback of submitted solutions to programming exercises.
Currently, Dodona supports programming languages such as Python, JavaScript, Java, Kotlin, C#, bash, Prolog, Haskell, SQL, and R.

On Dodona, teachers can create their own course, built from different exercise series.
They can use existing courses and exercises or choose to create their own exercises and teaching materials.
Thanks to the built-in *learning analytics* and data visualizations, it is also easy to measure students' progress.

## Logging In

You can log in to Dodona using your school's Smartschool, Microsoft 365, or Google Workspace account.
Dodona then receives your name, email address, and school name from the chosen login system.

> Based on this information, we can identify you and automatically create a Dodona account the first time you log in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on this information, we can identify you and automatically create a Dodona account the first time you sign in.
```

Your password is never sent to us.

::: tip Multiple login systems?

> Some schools offer login via both Smartschool and Microsoft 365 or Google Workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some schools use multiple identity providers.
```

> Since your Dodona account is linked to the login system used, you will have two different Dodona accounts if you log in via Smartschool first and then via Microsoft 365.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since your Dodona account is linked to the sign-in system used, you will have two different Dodona accounts if you sign in via Google first and then via Microsoft 365 next.
```

> To prevent issues, we can limit the login options for your school.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent issues, we can limit the sign-in options for your school.
```
